# Electromagnet-2016
Electromagnetic Levitation Stabilization Apparatus
This project aims to make an electromagnetic levitation apparatus that automatically stabilizes to combat opposing forces. The system includes 4 electromagnets on the corners of the structure. A gyrometer is constantly taking measurements and will detect if the levitating platform starts to tilt. If this happens, the system will send 12 volts through specific electromagnets causing the statue to levitate a few inches off of the structure. Using Maxwell Tensile Strength calculations to find the magnetic flux, the apparatus can theoretically lift 11 kilograms 1 inch into the air. Depending on the tilt of the statue as measured by the gyrometer, the electromagnets will compensate by sending added voltage in the opposite direction. This is done by 4 transistors and pulse width modulation control using an Arduino. Pulse width modulation is a type of digital signal that helps to vary voltage to the electromagnets. Therefore, the statue will stay flat regardless of any movement. The experiment was conducted to see if there would be a statistically greater angle at which a block on a platform falls over with the apparatus compared to the angle without it. The research hypothesis states that the model statue with the apparatus would fall over at significantly greater angle than the model statue without the apparatus. The null hypothesis states that there will be no significant difference.  The results show an increase in angle at which the model statue falls over. Therefore, there is an increase in stability with the electromagnetic device. Without the apparatus, the model statue fell over at a mean angle of 14.286°. With the apparatus, it fell over at an average angle of 24.741°, a 73% increase in stability. The p-value calculated with a one-tailed independent t-test is 1.371*10-23 which is less than the alpha value, 0.05. Thus, the null hypothesis is rejected and the research hypothesis is supported. Therefore, the data supports that the apparatus is successful in stabilization of the platform.
